# Title

Utah Schools Pre K to 12

## ID

0bd3da1d-be75-4364-9958-2d73e46e818e

## Brief Summary

Points dataset of locations of preschool, K-12, and other schools in Utah.

## Summary

This dataset contains point locations for preschool and K-12 schools in the state of Utah as of the 2019-2020 school year. Colleges, universities, and adult vocational training facilities are not included in the dataset.

<!--- Are there other datasets for other school years? I didn't find any in the Index. If that's the case, then should I direct people to USBE for those interested in data from other school years, or are there more school datasets hiding somewhere? --->

## Description

### What is the dataset?

The dataset includes public and private K-12 school locations in Utah. Public schools also include enrollment and demographic information as reported by the Utah State Board of Education (USBE). While some preschools are included, this dataset does not contain all preschools in Utah. More information regarding schools in Utah can be found on the [USBE website](https://schools.utah.gov/).

### What is the purpose of the dataset?

Educational data are used in public planning, state funds allocation, and in many other areas. This dataset has been made available to the public for cartographic and general analytic purposes.

### What does the dataset represent?

Each point in this dataset was placed on or near the main structure of the school facility. Schools that have been marked as 'closed' were not been included in this dataset.

### How was the dataset created?

UGRC developed this dataset in collaboration with the Wasatch Front Regional Council ([WFRC](wfrc.org)) and USBE. The tabular portion of the data were downloaded from USBE. The list of fields and the data in this dataset were generated by joining the following USBE reports: 2019-2020 School List, Fall 2019-2020 Enrollment by Demographics and Grade Levels, and Geographic Data.

We generated point locations from USBE's school list using the [UGRC Geocoding Web API](https://api.mapserv.utah.gov/docs/v1/endpoints/geocoding/), which utilizes [address point](https://gis.utah.gov/products/sgid/location/address-points/) and street polyline reference data. We then compared these points to the previous 2016-2017 school year and chose the best location between the two. Any unmatched addresses were digitized by hand with assistance from pubicly available mapping web apps.

UGRC maintains this dataset in collaboration with USBE. This dataset will be updated annually in conjunction with [USBE's annual report](https://schools.utah.gov/superintendentannualreport).

### How reliable and accurate is the dataset?

This dataset is the most complete geospatial resource for preschools and K-12 institutions in Utah, however, some discrepancies may exist in the data. This dataset does not all include all preschools in the state. Demographic data are available for public schools only. Please reach out to [our team](https://gis.utah.gov/contact/) with questions or concerns about this dataset.

## Credits

### Data Source

- UGRC
- USBE

### Host

- UGRC
- USBE

## Restrictions

## License

## Tags

- Education
- Utah State Board of Education
- Demographics
- Preschool

## Secondary Category

## Data Page Link

[https://gis.utah.gov/products/sgid/society/pre-k-through-12/]

## Update

### Update Schedule

This dataset is updated annually.

### Previous Updates
